FullName: Blood Elf
Faction: Horde
Home City: Silvermoon City
Mount: Hawkstrider
PlayableClasses: Hunter, Mage, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Warlock, Death Knight, Warrior, Monk, Demon Hunter
Language: Thalassian, Orcish
Lore: For nearly 7,000 years, high elven society centered on the sacred Sunwell, a magical fount that was created using a vial of pure arcane energy from the first Well of Eternity. Nourished and strengthened by the Sunwell’s potent energies, the high elves’ enchanted kingdom of Quel’Thalas prospered within the verdant forests north of Lordaeron.

Goblin
Faction: Horde
Home City: Bilgewater Habor
Mount: Trike
Playable Classes: Death Knight, Hunter, Mage, Priest, Rogue, Shaman, Warlock, Warrior
Language: Goblin, Orcish
Lore: Unlike the other races of the Horde, orcs are not native to Azeroth. Initially, they lived as shamanic clans on the lush world of Draenor. They abandoned their peaceful culture when Kil’jaeden, a demon lord of the Burning Legion, corrupted the orcs and used them in his vengeful plot against the draenei, who were exiles from Kil’jaeden’s homeworld.

Orc
Faction: Horde
Home City: Orgimmar
Mount: Wolf
Playable Classes: Hunter, Rogue, Shaman, Warlock, Warrior, Death Knight, Mage, Monk
Language: Orcish
Lore: Unlike the other races of the Horde, orcs are not native to Azeroth. Initially, they lived as shamanic clans on the lush world of Draenor. They abandoned their peaceful culture when Kil’jaeden, a demon lord of the Burning Legion, corrupted the orcs and used them in his vengeful plot against the draenei, who were exiles from Kil’jaeden’s homeworld.

Tauren
Faction: Horde
Home City: Thunder Bluff
Mount: Kodo
Playable Classes: Druid, Hunter, Shaman, Warrior, Death Knight, Paladin, Priest, Monk
Language: Taur-ahe, Orcish
Lore: The peaceful tauren—known in their own tongue as the shu’halo—have long dwelled in Kalimdor, striving to preserve the balance of nature at the behest of their goddess, the Earth Mother. Until recently, the tauren lived as nomads scattered throughout the Barrens, hunting the great kodo beasts native to the arid region.

Troll
Faction: Horde
Home City: Darkspear Isle
Mount: Raptor
Playable Classes: Hunter, Mage, Priest, Rogue, Shaman, Death Knight, Druid, Warlock, Monk
Language: Zandali, Orcish
Lore: The savage trolls of Azeroth are infamous for their cruelty, dark mysticism, and seething hatred for all other races. Yet one exception among the trolls is the Darkspear tribe and its cunning leader, Vol’jin. Plagued by a history of subservience and exile, this proud tribe was on the brink of extinction when Warchief Thrall and his mighty Horde forces were driven to the trolls’ remote island home in the South Seas during a violent storm.

Undead
Faction: Horde
Home City: The Undercity
Mount: Skeletal Horse
Playable Classes: Mage, Priest, Rogue, Warlock, Warrior, Death Knight, Hunter, Monk
Language: Gutterspeak, Orcish
Lore: Death offered no escape for the scores of humans killed during the Lich King’s campaign to scour the living from Lordaeron. Instead, the kingdom’s fallen were risen into undeath as Scourge minions and forced to wage an unholy war against everything… and everyone… that they once held dear.

Human
Faction: Alliance
Home City: Stormwind City
Racial Mount: Horse
Playable Classes: Mage, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Warlock, Warrior, Death Knight, Hunter, Monk
Language: Common
Lore: The clever, spunky, and oftentimes eccentric gnomes present a unique paradox among the civilized races of Azeroth. Brilliant inventors with an irrepressibly cheerful disposition, this race has suffered treachery, displacement, and near-genocide. It is their remarkable optimism in the face of such calamity that symbolizes the truly unshakable spirit of the gnomes.

Gnome
Faction: Alliance
Home City: Gnomeregan
Racial Mount: Mechanostrider
Playable Classes: Mage, Rogue, Warlock, Warrior, Death Knight, Priest, Monk, Hunter
Language: Gnome, Common
Lore: The clever, spunky, and oftentimes eccentric gnomes present a unique paradox among the civilized races of Azeroth. Brilliant inventors with an irrepressibly cheerful disposition, this race has suffered treachery, displacement, and near-genocide. It is their remarkable optimism in the face of such calamity that symbolizes the truly unshakable spirit of the gnomes.

Dwarf
Faction: Alliance
Home City: Ironforge
Racial Mount: Ram
Playable Classes: Hunter, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Warrior, Death Knight, Mage, Shaman, Warlock, Monk 
Language: Dwarven, Common
Lore: The bold and courageous dwarves are an ancient race descended from the earthen—beings of living stone created by the titans when the world was young. Due to a strange malady known as the curse of flesh, the dwarves’ earthen progenitors underwent a transformation that turned their rocky hides into soft skin. Ultimately, these creatures of flesh and blood dubbed themselves dwarves and carved out the mighty city of Ironforge in the snowy peaks of Khaz Modan.

Draenei
Faction: Alliance
Home City:  The Exodar
Mount: Elekk
Playable Classes: Hunter, Mage, Paladin, Priest, Shaman, Warrior, Death Knight, Monk
Language: Draenei, Common
Lore: Long before the fallen titan, Sargeras, unleashed his demonic Legion on Azeroth, he turned his baleful gaze upon the world of Argus and its highly intelligent inhabitants, the eredar. Believing that this magically gifted race would be a crucial component in his dark quest to undo all of creation, Sargeras contacted the eredar’s three leaders – Kil’jaeden, Archimonde, and Velen – and offered them knowledge and power in exchange for their loyalty.

Worgen
Faction: Alliance
Home City: Gilneas City
Mount: Running Wild
Playable Classes: Death Knight, Druid, Hunter, Mage, Priest, Rogue, Warlock, Warrior
Language: Gilnean, Common
Lore: Behind the formidable Greymane Wall, a terrible curse has spread throughout the isolated human nation of Gilneas, transforming many of its stalwart citizens into nightmarish beasts known as worgen. The origins of this curse have been fiercely debated, but only recently has the startling truth come to light.

Night Elf
Faction: Alliance
Home City: Darnassus
Mount: Nightsaber
Playable Classes: Druid, Hunter, Priest, Rogue, Warrior, Death Knight, Mage, Monk, Demon Hunter
Language: Darnassian, Common
Lore: The ancient and reclusive night elves have played a pivotal role in shaping Azeroth’s fate throughout its history. More than ten thousand years ago, their heroics during the War of the Ancients helped stave off the demonic Burning Legion’s first invasion. When the scattered remnants of the Legion on Azeroth rallied together with the vile satyrs centuries later, the night elves again rose to meet the threat. The ensuing War of the Satyr exacted a heavy toll from the night elves, but ultimately they vanquished the forces that had set out to wreak havoc on their world.